feat: repository tutorial (#1778)
litestar-org/litestar: docs/tutorials/repository-tutorial/01-modeling-and-features.rst

Introduction to Database Modeling and Repository Features
---------------------------------------------------------
In this tutorial, we will cover the integrated repository features in Litestar 2.0, starting with database modeling using the included SQLAlchemy declarative model helpers. These are a series of classes and mixins that incorporate commonly used functions/column types to make working with models easier.

> .. literalinclude:: /examples/contrib/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy_declarative_models.py

Reviewer: This file isn't in the change-set, so I'll just note here that the plugin config created in the example unnecessarily specifies the `session_dependency_key` argument:

```py
sqlalchemy_config = SQLAlchemyAsyncConfig(
    connection_string="sqlite+aiosqlite:///test.sqlite", session_dependency_key="db_session"
)
```
`"db_session"` is the default ([ref](https://github.com/litestar-org/litestar/blob/c0a98e51ee09efb15f5892e6143d0a6fa5fd7cd9/litestar/contrib/sqlalchemy/plugins/init/config/common.py#LL115C1-L115C1))

    :language: python
    :caption: app.py
    :emphasize-lines: 9, 8,19,20
    :linenos:

> We'll begin by modelling the entities and relationships between authors and books.  We'll start by creating the ``Author`` table, utilizing the :class:`UUIDBase <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.base.UUIDBase>` class. To keep things simple, our first model will encompass only three fields: `id`, `name`, and `dob`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll begin by modelling the entities and relationships between authors and books.  We'll start by creating the ``Author`` table, utilizing the :class:`UUIDBase <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.base.UUIDBase>` class. To keep things simple, our first model will encompass only three fields: ``id``, ``name``, and ``dob``.
```

> The books entity is not considered a "strong" entity and therefore always requires an author to be created.  We need to configure our SQLAlchemy classes so that it is aware of this relationship.

Author: Fair point.  There's a modeling concept of strong entities (those that can exist without other records) and weak entities (those that can't exist on their own).  Maybe it's not really appropriate to bring it up here.

> The books entity is not considered a "strong" entity and therefore always requires an author to be created.  We need to configure our SQLAlchemy classes so that it is aware of this relationship.

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's necessarily a bad idea to explain these things, just not the right place. A link to a document that goes into more detail would be perfect I think.

> We will extend the ``Author`` model by incorporating a ``Book`` relationship. This would allow each ``Author`` record to possess multiple ``Book`` records. By configuring it this way, SQLAlchemy will automatically include the necessary foreign key constraints when using the `author_id` field in each ``Book`` record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will extend the ``Author`` model by incorporating a ``Book`` relationship. This would allow each ``Author`` record to possess multiple ``Book`` records. By configuring it this way, SQLAlchemy will automatically include the necessary foreign key constraints when using the ``author_id`` field in each ``Book`` record.
```

.. literalinclude:: /examples/contrib/sqlalchemy/sqlalchemy_declarative_models.py
    :language: python
    :caption: app.py
    :emphasize-lines: 9, 21,26,27,28,29
    :linenos:

To demonstrate some of the other included helper classes, we will take advantage of the automatically timestamped audit model feature. This lets us record the time when each record was created and last updated.

To implement this, we will define a new ``Book`` model via the :class:`UUIDAuditBase <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.base.UUIDAuditBase>` class. Observe that the only modification here is the parent class from which we inherit. This minor change endows the `book` table with automatic timestamp columns (`created` and `updated`) upon deployment!

.. note::

    If your application requires integer-based primary keys, an equivalent base model and base audit model implementations can be found at :class:`BigIntBase <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.base.BigIntAuditBase>` and :class:`BigIntAuditBase <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.base.UUIDAuditBase>` respectively.

>     *Spanner Only* Using monotonically changing primary keys is considered an anti-pattern in Spanner and leads to performance problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *Spanner Only*: Using monotonically changing primary keys is considered an anti-pattern in Spanner and leads to performance problems.
```

>     *Spanner Only* Using monotonically changing primary keys is considered an anti-pattern in Spanner and leads to performance problems.

Reviewer 3: Link to Spanner here?

    Additionally, Spanner does not currently include an idiom comparable to the ``Sequence`` object.  This means the ``BigIntBase`` and ``BigIntAuditBase`` are not currently supported for Spanner.

> By using the built-in base declarative models, you gain some additional features that address common features and pain points when working with SQLAlchemy:

Reviewer: How about something like:
```suggestion
Additional features provided by the built-in base models include:
```

- Synchronous and Asynchronous repository implementations have been tried and tested with various popular database engines. As of now, six database engines are supported: Postgres, SQLite, MySQL, DuckDB, Oracle, and Spanner.

> - Automatic table name deduction from model name. For instance, a model named `EventLog` would correspond to the `event_log` database table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Automatic table name deduction from model name. For instance, a model named ``EventLog`` would correspond to the ``event_log`` database table.
```

> - A :class:`GUID <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.types.GUID>` database type that establishes a native UUID in supported engines or a `Binary(16)` as a fallback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A :class:`GUID <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.types.GUID>` database type that establishes a native UUID in supported engines or a ``Binary(16)`` as a fallback.
```

> - A `BigInteger` variant `BigIntIdentity <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.types.BigIntIdentity>` that reverts to an `Integer` for unsupported variants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A ``BigInteger`` variant :class:`BigIntIdentity <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.types.BigIntIdentity>` that reverts to an ``Integer`` for unsupported variants.
```

> - A custom :class:`JSON <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.types.JSON>` type that uses native `JSONB` where possible and `Binary` or `Blob` as an alternative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A custom :class:`JSON <litestar.contrib.sqlalchemy.types.JSON>` type that uses native ``JSONB`` where possible and ``Binary`` or ``Blob`` as an alternative.
```
